Power BI MCQ's:

1) What are the three view in power bi?
ANS: 1)Report view 2)Data view 3)Relationship view

2)Which language is used for power query editor?
ANS: M Language

3)Data sources available in Power bi?
ANS: 1)File 2)Online services 3)Azure 4)Power bi 5)Database 6)Other

4)What are the building blocks of power bi?
ANS: 1)Visualisations 2)Reports 3)Datasets 4)Dashboards 5)Tiles

5)What are the categories of cloud services?
ANS:    1)IAAS : Infrastructure As A services
	2)PAAS:Platform As A Services
	3)SAAS:Software As A Services

6)What is used to generate interesting interactive visualizations based on your data?
ANS:  Quick insights

7)Power BI Pro license is required to share and receive your content.
ANS: Yes

8)Which data connections file category provides?
ANS: 1)Text/CSV 2)XML 3)Excel 4)JSON 5)Folder 6)Sharepoint folder

9)To find relationship between queries what is option?
ANS : Homw->Manage relationship->Autodetect

10)Default cardinality in creating relationship between queries?
ANS : Many to one

11)When to use Many to Many cardinality?
ANS: When neither columns contains unique values

12)Three types of cardinality used in power bi?
ANS : 1) 1-1 2)1-* 3)*-1

13)Which cross filter direction works well in star schema?
ANS :Both

14)Power BI Desktop only allows a single active relationship between two tables at a given time

15) What are the tabs available in query editor ribbon?
ANS : Home,Transform,Add column,View

16)Parsing in query editor ?
ANS : XML,JSON

17)Query dependancies used to view dependancies tree.

18)All steps associated with query are dipslayed in Query Setting pane.

19)What is fully qualified column?
ANS :Column name preceded by table name. E.g sales.ProductSales

20)What is used if you want to take particular values from columns?
ANS :Use filters

21)What are the important DAX concepts in power bi?
ANS :Syntax,Functions,Context

22)What always surrounds a column name in a DAX formula?
ANS : Brackets

23)What are the types of context?
ANS:Row contxt and Filter context

24)One DAX formula contains maximum how many functions?
ANS :64

25)What category of function is used to concate two strings?
ANS: Text functions

26) Where to use funnel chart?
ANS: If there is sequantial flow between stages then use funnel chart

27) Power bi components ?
ANS : 1) Desktop 2)Services 3)Mobile App

28)What is power bi mobile APP?
ANS : To view our reports anywhere any time

29) Mobile Apps are available for Android,windows and iOS users

30)To egt more insights what we can do?
ANS : We can use : Filters,Group,slicers,Matrix

31)Append query does not remove duplicates it just appends the data.

32)Power bi allows you to create relationship btwn tables using Relationship view.

33)Power bi does not support for many-many cardinality

34)Difference between measures and calculated columns?
ANS :
Measures:1)Used at run time
	2)Can not be used to create relationship between tables
	3)not added as a new column in table
(Opposite to measures is calculated columns)			

